README.md, before:

Parle prototype project

Can we write clean code that allows higher-order optimisation?

The code in this project is not itself clean, but Python hacks to
experiment with clean higher order program expression.

We work over data structures rather than element at a time.

    >>> from parle import *
    >>> span(10)
    range(1, 11)
    >>> Row(span(10))
    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
    >>> _@mul*2
    2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
    >>> span(10)@pow*2
    1 4 9 16 25 36 49 64 81 100
    >>> 

Function composition is expressed with *

    >>> f=(pow*2)*(mul*2)
    >>> 1*f
    2
    >>> 2*f
    8
    >>> 3*f, 3**2*2
    (18, 18)
    >>> span(10)@f
    2 8 18 32 50 72 98 128 162 200
    >>> 1*f*f*f
    128
    >>> 1*(f**3)
    128

/f Does a search for elements that match truth(f(x)).

    >>> ['spring','frogs','lemons','grass','tree']@meth.endswith('s')
    [False, True, True, True, False]
    >>> ['spring','frogs','lemons','grass','tree']/meth.endswith('s')
    ['frogs', 'lemons', 'grass']
    >>> 
    >>> eq=Binop(op.eq)
    >>> span(10)/(eq*3)
    3
    >>> span(10)/(mod*2*eq*1)
    1 3 5 7 9
    >>> span(10)/(mod*2*eq*0)
    2 4 6 8 10
    >>> 

We can also sum over elements

    >>> Span=span*Row
    >>> Span(3)
    1 2 3
    >>> add/Span(3)
    6
    >>> add/Span(10)
    55
    >>> 

Why?

- When we work on collections rather than individual elements we are
optimising over loops.

- Code can be parallelised

- Code can be specialised for the data and code being optimised.

- Data reperesentation can be specialised for the data and code being
optimised.

- Complexity when working over a data structure can be better than working
element at a time.

- To gain these benefits we need a sufficently clean expression of what
  we are doing to allow higher order optimisation

This is an unsupported prototype project and is subject to error and
discontinuation.

Commit message:

Add clarity of purpose to README

README.md, after:

Parle prototype project

Can we write clean code that allows higher-order optimisation?

The code in this project is not itself clean, but Python hacks to
experiment with clean higher order program expression.

We work over data structures rather than element at a time.

    >>> from parle import *
    >>> span(10)
    range(1, 11)
    >>> Row(span(10))
    1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
    >>> _@mul*2
    2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
    >>> span(10)@pow*2
    1 4 9 16 25 36 49 64 81 100
    >>> 

Function composition is expressed with *

    >>> f=(pow*2)*(mul*2)
    >>> 1*f
    2
    >>> 2*f
    8
    >>> 3*f, 3**2*2
    (18, 18)
    >>> span(10)@f
    2 8 18 32 50 72 98 128 162 200
    >>> 1*f*f*f
    128
    >>> 1*(f**3)
    128

/f Does a search for elements that match truth(f(x)).

    >>> ['spring','frogs','lemons','grass','tree']@meth.endswith('s')
    [False, True, True, True, False]
    >>> ['spring','frogs','lemons','grass','tree']/meth.endswith('s')
    ['frogs', 'lemons', 'grass']
    >>> 
    >>> eq=Binop(op.eq)
    >>> span(10)/(eq*3)
    3
    >>> span(10)/(mod*2*eq*1)
    1 3 5 7 9
    >>> span(10)/(mod*2*eq*0)
    2 4 6 8 10
    >>> 

We can also sum over elements

    >>> Span=span*Row
    >>> Span(3)
    1 2 3
    >>> add/Span(3)
    6
    >>> add/Span(10)
    55
    >>> 

Why?

- When we work on collections rather than individual elements we are
optimising over loops.

- Code can be parallelised

- Code can be specialised for the data and code being optimised.

- Data reperesentation can be specialised for the data and code being
optimised.

- Complexity when working over a data structure can be better than working
element at a time.

To gain these benefits we need a sufficently clean expression of what
we are doing to allow higher order optimisation. The purpose of this
project is to experiment with program expression.

This is an unsupported prototype project and is subject to error and
discontinuation.
